Megamind: (voiceover.) Here's my day so far; went to jail, lost the girl of my dreams, and got my butt kicked pretty good. Still, things could be a lot worse. Oh, that's right. I'm falling to my death. Guess they can't. How did it all come to this you ask? My end starts at the beginning. The very beginning. Yes, that's me. I had a fairly standard childhood. I came from what you might call a broken home, literally broken. I was 8 days old and still living with my parents. How sad is that? Clearly it was time to move on.
Megamind: (voice over) I didn't quite hear that last part, but it sounded important. Destined for... what? I set out to find my destiny. Turns out a kid from the Glaupunk Quadrant had the exact same idea. That was the day I met Mr. Goody-Two-Shoes. And our glorious rivalry was born!
Megamind: (voice over) Could this be what I was destined for? A dream life filled with luxury?
Megamind: (voice-over.) Apparently not! Even fate has its favorites. No big deal. A much different fate awaited me.
Megamind: (voice-over.) Luckily I found a lovely little place to call home.
Megamind: (voice-over.) A place that taught me the differences between right and wrong. Mr. Goody-Two-Shoes on the other hand had life handed to him on a silver platter.
Megamind: (voice-over.) The power of flight, invulnerability, and great hair! (the image freezes at Mr. GTS as the tip of his hair shines) But I had something far, far greater. My amazing intellect! A knack for building objects of mayhem. (Now riding a tricycle made out of Metro City license plates, baby Megamind rides down the hall with some of the inmates following him. His pacifier shoots a beam through the wall and is stopped by the warden.
Megamind: (voice-over.) After a few years and with some time off for good behavior, I was given an opportunity to better myself through learning at a strange place called ‘shool’. It was there that I once again ran into Mr. Goody-Two-Shoes. He had already amassed a gigantic army of soft-headed groupies.
Megamind: (voice-over.) He bought their affections with showmanship, extravagant gifts of deliciousness. So I too would make this popped corn and win over those mindless drones.
Megamind: (voice-over.) That's when I learned a very hard lesson. Good receives all the praise and adulation while evil is sent to quiet time in the corner. (Metro Man sends Megamind to the back of the room and is rewarded with a gold star sticker. A class photo) So fitting in wasn’t really an option. (MM (Metro Man) plays a ukulele as the class sings "Itsy Bitsy Spider".) While they were learning Itzy Bitzy Spider, I learnt how to dehydrate inanimate objects and rehydrate them at will. (Megamind fires a ray at Minion turning him into a cube, and adds a drop of water on the cube to bring Minion back to life. The latter sees the former belly-up as he taps of the sphere. Minion wakes up as the two share a smile.) Some days it felt like it was just me and Minion against the world. No matter how hard I tried I was always the odd man out. (MM picks a girl with a cast and crutches to be on his team.) The last one picked. A screw up! Black sheep! (dodgeballs are being pelted at Megamind.) Bad boy! (As a new round begins, Megamind buckles up a helmet with spikes on them. As the dodgeballs fire, lightning from the spikes reflect the balls hitting a car, a man's head, and nearly hitting the teacher, but deflected by MM. He is rewarded with yet another gold star sticker.) Was this my destiny? Wait... maybe it was! Being bad is the one thing I'm good at. Then it hit me; if I was the bad boy, then I was going to be the baddest boy of them all!
Megamind: (voice-over.) Our battles quickly got more elaborate. He would win some, I would almost win others! He took the name Metro Man, defender of Metro City (pronounced 'met-traw-city'). I decided to pick something a little more humble; Megamind, incredibly handsome criminal genius and master of all villainy!
Megamind: BOO! (Warden jumps back. Megamind laughs.) Good morning Warden. Great news, I'm a changed man and I’m ready to re-enter society as a solid citizen.
Megamind: You're fun.
Megamind: Is it a puppy?
Megamind: Any chance you could give me the time. I don’t want to be late for the opening of the Metro Man museum.
Megamind: Oh, am I?
Megamind: You were right. (The watch changes him into the Warden) I’ll always be a villain. (Megamind cackles sinisterly as he locks the door behind him and leaves the prison)
Megamind: Certainly do, you fantastic fish, you!
Megamind: Woo! I’m free! Nice work sending me the watch, Minion!
Megamind: Punch it!
Megamind: Aahh, I tell you Minion, there’s no place like evil lair.
Megamind: How…how do I look, Minion? Do I look bad?
Megamind: You always know what to say.
Megamind: Did you miss your daddy? Who’s a menacing little cyborg? You are. Yes, you are. Uh-uh! No biting! No-no-no-no-no. You want the wrench? Go get the wrench!
Megamind: Now, back to laughing.
Megamind: She’s awake! Quick. To work.
Megamind: Miss Ritchie, we meet again.
Megamind: You can scream all you wish, Miss Ritchie. I’m afraid no one can hear you!
Megamind: Why…uh, why isn’t she screaming?
Megamind: Like this…aaahhhh!
Megamind: But that’s…that’s a poor lady scream.
Megamind: Don’t answer that.
Megamind: Don’t! Stop! She’s using her nosy reporter skills on your weak-willed mind to find out all our secrets.
Megamind: Such tricks… won’t work on me…
Megamind: …temptress!
Megamind: Predictable, predictable! Oh, you call this… predictable?! (pulls a lever)
Megamind: What’s this? Boom! In your face. (deploys a gatling gun)
Megamind: No, look! Watch.
Megamind: Shock and awe!
Megamind: Oh, it’s so scary!
Megamind: What’s this one do?
Megamind: Spider?
Megamind: Uh…yes! The…the speiiiider. Even the smallest bite from “arachnis deathicus” will instantly paralyze…
Megamind: Oh! Get it off! Ow, it bit me!
Megamind: Let’s stop wasting time and call your boyfriend in tights, shall we?
Megamind: (evil laugh)
Megamind: Oh, bravo, Metro Man!
Megamind: Boo! Yes, I can play along, too. Boo!
Megamind: Oh, I intend to do more than crash it. This is a day you and Metrocity shall not soon forget!
Megamind: Oh, potato, tomato, potato, tomato.
Megamind: Oh, I’m shaking in my custom baby seal leather boots! You will leave Metrocity, or this will be the last you ever hear of, Roxanne Ritchie! Huh?
Megamind: (smirking) In order to stop me, you need to find me first, Metro Man!
Megamind: Ah-huh! No, we’re not! Don’t listen to her! She’s crazy!
Megamind: (retorting) Ha ha!
Megamind: (megamind drops the fake laugh and cackles sinisterly as Roxanne becomes more concerned)
Megamind: Oh, good heavens! You didn’t think you were in the real observatory, did you?
Megamind: Ready the death ray, Minion.
Megamind: Over here, old friend! In case you’ve noticed, you’ve fallen right into my trap.
Megamind: But, even the most heartfelt belief can be corroded over time.
Megamind: But metals can be melted by the heat of ravange!
Megamind: But it can be easily reheated in the microwave of evil!
Megamind: Maybe I got an extended warranty!
Megamind: Of course! That is if Metro Man can withstand the full concentrated power of the sun! FIRE!
Megamind: Minion… fire?
Megamind: Come again?
Megamind: Warming up! The sun is warming up?
Megamind: Honestly!
Megamind: (exasperated) Uuhh! I told you to have things ready. I told you countless times.
Megamind: My spider bite is acting!
Megamind: Who’s side are you on?
Megamind: You of all people know we discontinued that promotion. Ciao-ciao, all!
Megamind: (turning) What did he just say?
Megamind: What kind of trickery is this?
Megamind: It…it has?
Megamind: Yeah, so?
Megamind: Your weakness is copper? You’re kidding, right?
Megamind: Well, let’s not get our hopes up just yet.
Megamind: (relieved gasp) Metro Man! ...METRO MAN!!!
Megamind: Oh god! Oh god!
Megamind: …I did it?
Megamind: I did it?
Megamind: (excited) I did it!
Megamind: I did it! Metrocity is mine!
Megamind: (singing) Yes I did.
Megamind: I did it!
Megamind: Not us, I!
Megamind: What awards? Awards for what? Hit it!
Megamind: Wooo! Hahaha! Drop ‘em!
Megamind: First off, what a turnout! How wild is this, huh?
Megamind: All I did was eliminate the most powerful man in the universe. Are there any questions? Go on. Yes! You in the back.
Megamind: Good, I’m glad you asked that. Imagine the most horrible, terrifying, evil thing you can possibly think of… and multiply it…by six! In the meantime, I want you to carry on with the dreary normal things you, normal people do. Let’s just have fun with this, come on! And I will get back to you.
Megamind: (whispering) Now slam the door really hard.
Megamind: They, they can still see you.
Megamind: Your elbow’s still in. (both laugh) Good.
Megamind: Oh, Minion, did you think this day would ever come?
Megamind: Look at the intricate moldings.
Megamind: And what’s this? It’s like one of the giant monitors in the lair, but it seems to carry only one station.
Megamind: Window!
Megamind: Oooh! I’ve never had a view before. Metrocity, Minion. It’s all mine. If my parents could see me now…
Megamind: And now that Mr.Goody Two-Shoes is out of the way, I can have everything I want! And there’s no one to stop me!
Megamind: I know, I know. Always thirsty, never satisfied. I understand you, little well-dressed bird. Purposeless, emptiness. It’s a vacuum, isn’t it? It’s…What’s your vacuum like?
Megamind: Hey, hey, hey, hey! Not now, Minion. I’m in a heated, existential discussion with this dead-eyed, plastic desk toy.
Megamind: Just think about it. We have it all. Yet we have nothing. It’s just too easy now.
Megamind: (wearily) I mean, we did it, right?
Megamind: Then why do I feel so…melancholy?
Megamind: Unhappy.
Megamind: Good idea, Minion. But without him, what’s the point? (gesturing at the statue of Metro Man)
Megamind: Nothing.
Megamind: I’ve made a horrible mistake. I didn’t mean to destroy you. I mean, I meant to destroy you, but I didn’t think it would really work.
Megamind: I’m so tired of running rampant through the streets. What’s the point of being bad when there’s no good to try and stop you?
Megamind: I had so many evil plans in the works; The Illiteracy Beam, Typhoon Cheese, Robo Sheep. Battles we will now never have.
Megamind: You know, I never had the chance to say goodbye. So it’s good that we have this time now. You know, before I destroy the place. Nothing personal, it just brings back too many painful memories.
Megamind: (To himself) Roxxane?!
Megamind: Costume?!
Megamind: Only the future…
Megamind: Aaaah! Oh! I’m too close! I’m genuinely scared right now! Oh! I hope no one’s seeing this! Aah!
Megamind: So I have someone to fight! Minion, I’m a villain without a hero. A yin with no yang. A bullfighter with no bull to fight. In other words, I have no purpose! Now, ask me how I’m going to do it. Go on! Ask!
Megamind: Hahaha! I’m going to give someone, I don’t know who yet, Metro Man’s powers. I’m going to train that someone to become Metrocity’s new hero. Over here, follow!
Megamind: And then finally, I’m going to fight that hero in an epic battle of good and evil, which will put everything back the way it was, when the world was perfect and rosy!
Megamind: Behold, Minion, Metro Man’s cape! Look closely.
Megamind: Tell me what you see.
Megamind: Ha…ha…yes! It’s his DNA! From this, we’ll extract the source of Metro Man’s awesome power.
Megamind: Yes, this is a very wickedly bad idea for the greater good of bad!
Megamind: Oh, you don’t know what’s good for bad!
Megamind: Now, we have just one shot at this. We must find a suitable subject. Someone of noble heart and mind, who puts the welfare of others above their own.
Megamind: What on earth is that?
Megamind: Ollo?
Megamind: Oh. Hello?
Megamind: Like that?
Megamind: It’s Roxanne!
Megamind: She’s so cute!
Megamind:  Uh-huh. And what gives you that idea?
Megamind: (shouting) How did she find my hideout?!
Megamind: Uh, how did you find his hideout?
Megamind: Okay. There’s no way she’ll find the secret entrance.
Megamind: Minion!
Megamind: She’ll discover all our secrets!
Megamind: You dim-witted creation of science!!
Megamind: What? Oh no, not you, Roxxane. No, I was just yelling at…my mother’s urn. Don’t do anything I’ll be right there.
Megamind: (turning off his disguise) It’s Daddy!
Megamind: Bernard? Oh, yes. I’m doing horrible things to that man. I don’t want to get into it, but lasers, spikes…
Megamind: You know, the drill.
Megamind: Or what?
Megamind: No! Don’t shoot! Don’t shoot that gun! I’ll just go get him.
Megamind: Aargh! I work out!
Megamind: Let go, it’s mine!
Megamind: You’re going to break it!
Megamind: Oh no!
Megamind: (gasp)
Megamind: Code: Get the car.
Megamind: Who is this man we’ve infused with god-like power?
Megamind: Not yet, Minion. Not yet!
Megamind: No, Minion! There’s something much more powerful at work here. (He tosses the gun into the back seat. This will be important later)
Megamind: This is no mistake. It’s destiny!
Megamind: Hal Shtewart! Prepare for your destiny! Hal? Hal Shtewart? Am I saying it right?
Megamind: Ah!
Megamind: Oh, look! It’s Hal Stewart. Quick, the spray!
Megamind: Well, use the forget-me stick.
Megamind: (gasp) Just look at him.
Megamind: Oh, you’re such a pill, Minion. (They fold the bed on Hal again, hiding him in the wall) A potter couldn’t ask for finer clay.
Megamind: I smell a hero.
Megamind: I think it’s working! Places! Places! Pla…places!
Megamind: Do you have your disguise?
Megamind: Hh, you look fantastic.
Megamind: He’s hopeless. Hopeless!
Megamind: You think so?
Megamind: Can’t wait. LOL. Smiley face.
Megamind: Um, well, we don’t want to battle our new hero in a dump now, do we?
Megamind: Ha? Oh, yes. How long is this going to take, Minion?
Megamind: Black Mamba. Perfect! Ooh. Gosh, I am running late. I have to go.
Megamind: You attend to the details, Minion. I have to…run a quick errand.
Megamind: What?
Megamind: It’s just my natural musk. Now, where are the car keys? Ah!
Megamind: (laughs) No, my main man! Get out of town!
Megamind: You are forgetting your place, Minion. Now give me the keys!
Megamind: She will never find out. That’s the point of lying!
Megamind: Honestly, if I didn’t know any better, I’d think this was your first day of being evil.
Megamind: Oh, that was really grown up!
Megamind: Oh, what do you know?
Megamind: Maybe I don’t want to be the bad guy anymore!
Megamind: You heard me!
Megamind: Now give me the keys!
Megamind: Well, I don’t need you to look after me.
Megamind: Let me make it clear. Code; I don’t need you.
Megamind: Code; fine!
Megamind: I will!
Megamind: I know!
Megamind: What? What?
Megamind: (gasp) Aaah! Don’t look at me! Just…just a technical glitch! Don’t look yet.
Megamind: (groans) Okay!
Megamind: Now, now, hold on!
Megamind: I can explain.
Megamind: What about everything you just said? About judging a book by its cover?
Megamind: No.
Megamind: Okay, Minion! You were right! I was…less right! We should stick to what we’re good at. Being bad. Minion?
Megamind: (pointing at a brainbot) You there.
Megamind: Yeah, you. Bring out the Black Mamba.
Megamind: Okay, Tighten! It’s time to go down in style.
Megamind: (evil laughter) I hear there’s a new hero who dares challenge my evil. Where is the one they call Tighten? (laughs) Challenge me, if you dare!
Megamind: Brrrr.. Errrr! Oh no, we’re gonna crash! Ahhh!
Megamind: (sighs) This is embarrassing (he gets up and walks over to Hal’s apartment building.) Of all the inconsiderate, bone-head, irresponsible, rude…! Unprofessional! That’s what this is! (He punches into Hals apartment, getting out of his mech) Would Metro Man have kept me waiting? Of course not! He was a pro!
Megamind: Do you have any idea how long I waited for you?
Megamind: Were you even planning on showing up? What's this?
Megamind: Where did you get all this stuff?
Megamind: You stole it!
Megamind: No, no, no, no! You’re a hero!
Megamind: Roxanne Ritchie?
Megamind: Oh.
Megamind: You…wait…what?
Megamind: You want to team up?
Megamind: Costume designs?
Megamind: I can’t believe you. All your gifts, all your powers and you…you squander them for your own personal gain!
Megamind: No! I’m the villain! You’re the good guy! I do something bad, and you come and get me. That’s why I created you!
Megamind: Look, I’m your space dad!
Megamind: Oh, don’t like that, huh? Well, there’s more.
Megamind: *makes mocking kissing sounds*
Megamind: Yes, yes, I know! Bring me to justice. Oh god how I've missed this!
Megamind: Oh! And the hero strikes the first blow! But evil returns with a backhand! (laughs maniacally while smacking Tighten away) Yes!
Megamind: Shh! (laughs)
Megamind: You fell for the oldest evil trick in the book!
Megamind: En garde! (laughs)
Megamind: Haha! Now, that’s the spirit! Parry! Thrust! Parry again! Now it’s time for some witty back-and-forth banter! You go first!
Megamind: Okay! Look, I’m not sure where to go with that!
Megamind: Oh, well done! I thought that battle went really, really well. I mean, I have a few notes.
Megamind: But they can wait. (sighs) You can take me to jail now.
Megamind: Whoa, whoa, whoa! This isn’t how you play the game.
Megamind: Brainbots!
Megamind: I’m calling time out! Time out? Time out, time out!
Megamind: Brainbots, initiate the fail-safe.
Megamind: (chuckles) Guess what, Buster Brown? It’s made from copper. You’re powerless against it. It’s the very same metal used to defeat…
Megamind: …Metro Man?
Megamind: Tighten’s turned evil.
Megamind: Please Roxanne, no! No! I need your help.
Megamind: (sighs) Because you’re the smartest person I know.
Megamind: The copper should have worked. Why didn’t the copper work? The copper worked perfectly well last time.
Megamind: Look, if we don’t find Tighten’s weakness, he’ll destroy the whole city.
Megamind: We need to find answers. You knew Metro Man best, did he have a hideout? A cave? A solitary fortress of some kind? Anything that would give us clues?
Megamind: I can’t. I lost my diffuser gun when I misplaced the invisible car. The night you dumped me. Alone. In the rain. Did you ever look back?
Megamind: Ow! My giant blue head!
Megamind: (grunts) So, this is where he hid it. After all these years. My old shoolhouse.
Megamind: Okay, that would be nice, but make it quick. We have much more pressing matters to deal with.
Megamind: Wow! I can’t believe he kept all this stuff. (He sees a cape with a neck rest attached) (sighs) I remember when he wore that.
Megamind: Yes, of course, right, focused.
Megamind: What is it? What did you find?
Megamind: Yes, that’s what happens when water gets cold.
Megamind: One of life’s great mysteries.
Megamind: You’re alive?
Megamind: Are you a ghost?
Megamind: Speak, apparition.
Megamind: Your weakness is copper?
Megamind: Cause of what?
Megamind: Granted, you have talent! But there’s a madman out there destroying our… your city!
Megamind: No, I’m with you! Look, we need your help.
Megamind: We can’t.
Megamind: I’m the bad guy. I don’t save the day. I don’t fly off into the sunset and I don’t get the girl. I’m going home.
Megamind: Roxanne…
Megamind: Roxanne!
Megamind: Warden! Warden! Listen to me, you have to let me go. Tighten has to be stopped!
Megamind: Do you want to hear me say it? I’ll say it. Here it is; from the blackest part of my heart. I am sorry.
Megamind: (sighs) I don’t blame you. I’ve terrorized the city countless times. Created a hero who’s turned out to be a villain. I lied to Roxanne and… my best friend, Minion, I treated like dirt. But please don’t make this city, don’t make Roxanne pay for my wrongdoings.
Megamind: Oh, Minion. You fantastic fish, you!
Megamind: (Both chuckling) You got me.
Megamind: We’re gonna die!
Megamind: You dare challenge Megamind?
Megamind: Oh, you’re a villain all right, just not a super one!
Megamind: Presentation!
Megamind: Well, that made one of us!
Megamind: Well, it mostly involves not dying!
Megamind: I can’t control it!
Megamind: I’m sorry. I did the best I could.
Megamind: Oops.
Megamind: (Nervously laughing)
Megamind: You’re bringing this up now?
Megamind: You did? You did?!
Megamind: (He looks behind him and spots the car) Oh! I get it!
Megamind: I made you a hero. You did the fool thing all by yourself!
Megamind: There’s a benefit to losing. You get to learn from your mistakes.
Megamind: Oh, you’ve got to be kidding me! Minion, if I live, I will kill you.
Megamind: (Nervously chuckles and locks the door)
Megamind: So, this is how it ends. Normally I’d chalk this up to my last glorious failure.
Megamind: But not today! What can I say? Old habits die hard.
Megamind: Ollo!
Megamind: Thing about bad guys, they always lose!
Megamind: Well, I finally had a reason to win. You.
Megamind: Minion!
Megamind: It’s me, Minion. I’m right here.
Megamind: We have, Minion.
Megamind: Yes, Minion. We did it. Thanks to you.
Megamind: Code; I guess we are.
Megamind: (groans) What a drama queen!
Megamind: He had you, didn’t he?
Megamind: Classic Minion. Don’t give me that face. Reels you in with that little face. Look at that face.
Megamind: Fist pump!
Megamind: We won! We won! We won!
Megamind: Get back, you savages!
Megamind: Funny, I guess destiny is not the path given to us… but the path we choose for ourselves.
Megamind: All right! Put your hands in the air!
Megamind: Now hand over your wallets!
Megamind: I’m just kidding! (laughs) Just kidding.
Megamind: (voice over) I have to admit, being good has its perks.
Megamind: You know, I like the sound of that. Hit it!
